Question 1
Question	
The results from research have been known to produce harms to members of the sampled population who do not actually participate in the research study. An example of the type of research that could result in group harms by stigmatizing members of the group (even for individuals who do not participate in the research) is:

Answer	A study of the types and prevalence of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) in small rural towns in a midwestern state.
Result	Correct
Comment	
The research results from the study of types and prevalence of STIs in the midwestern state could potentially stigmatize individuals who are members of rural communities in the state being studied, even if they did not participate in the research. The research results from the other studies (including about sleeping patterns and productivity, glucose monitoring, or absenteeism) would not be stigmatizing.

### Question:
	
Which of the following practices can be effective in minimizing group harms?

Answer	All of the above
Result	Correct
Comment	
Community consultation is used with the community of interest to make sure that potential harms are recognized and understood, and that the study is designed to provide benefits to the community. Collaborative IRB review with tribal IRB's will also maximize the likelihood that group harms are minimized. On-going consultation ensures that group leaders are provided with accurate information about the research as it progresses. By planning disclosure of the research, the researcher informs the community about how the research results will be disclosed early on in the process to reduce the possibility of harms to the group as the research is published or presented.

Question 3
Question	
Which of the following studies has the LEAST potential to create group harm?

Answer	A Phase 3 clinical trial of a new anticancer agent in middle-aged women diagnosed with breast cancer.
Result	Correct
Comment	
A Phase 3 clinical trial of a new anticancer agent in middle-aged women diagnosed with breast cancer is unlikely to cause group harms. It is unlikely that such a study will be harmful to women with breast cancer or to women in general who do not participate in the study. The results from other hypothetical studies listed have the potential to be distressful, to stigmatize or in another way harm individual members of the Group who did not actively participate in the research.
