### Question:
Which of the following proposed studies would constitute human subjects research as defined under the federal regulations?

Answer A researcher from a school of social work obtains access to students' academic records (including identifiable information) to assess the effect of drug awareness programs on student academic achievement.
Result Correct
Comment 
Immigrants entering the US between 1875 and 1880 are likely not living now; therefore, according to the federal regulations, they are not defined as "human subjects.” If a researcher asks for the number of women receiving funding from a federal agency, the researcher is not acquiring data about individuals; therefore, the women who received funding are not human subjects. The researcher analyzing public blogs is accessing public information about individuals.

In order to meet the definition of research of research with human subjects, the researcher must access private identifiable information. The researcher access student academic records would have access to individual students’ private identifiable information.

### Question:
Which of the following activities meets the federal definitions of research?

Answer Collection of elementary school test scores to evaluate the effectiveness of an experimental program to teach reading
Result Correct
Comment 
The collection of elementary school test scores to evaluate the effectiveness of an experimental program to teach reading, constitutes an activity that is systematic and generalizable. None of the other activities are intended to result in generalizable information.
