Question 1
Question 
A method to protect subject’s privacy in research would be:

Your Answer Conducting research activities in a private setting
Result Correct
Comment 
Methods to protect subject privacy include conducting research activities in a private setting or ensuring that data are not collected without the individual's knowledge and consent.

Question 2
Question 
Which of the following is a measure researchers can use to protect the confidentiality of subject data?

Your Answer Keep sensitive and identifiable data in encrypted files on a password protected hard drive.
Result Correct
Comment 
The correct answer is “Keep data on sensitive issues in encrypted files in a password protected hard drive.” This is the only answer that addresses maintaining confidentiality of research data. The other answers all address protecting subject privacy.

Question 3
Question 
Identify the term that refers to the right to control access to ourselves and to our personal information.

Your Answer Privacy
Result Correct
Comment 
Privacy refers to the right to control access to ourselves and to our personal information.

Question 4
Question
Identify the term that refers to agreements made between researchers and subjects, through the consent process, about if and how researchers will protect information provided by the subjects.

Your Answer Confidentiality
Result Correct
Comment 
Confidentiality refers to agreements made between researchers and subjects, through the consent process, about if and how researchers will protect information provided by the subjects.
