### Question

When the primary potential harm is the breach of individually identifiable data, to protect against such disclosures researchers should:

### Answer

Encrypt the data and store it in password protected files on institutionally maintained servers with limited access.

### Comment

Having the data in the researcher’s possession at all times would not provide adequate protection. Laptops, files, and backpacks can be stolen or misplaced. Storing codes and identifiers in separate files will not sufficiently protect data because the material in the files could be linked by someone other than the researcher. Only reporting data in aggregate form would protect the individual subjects in the reporting process, but does not address data storage. The best way to protect identifiable data among the possibilities listed is to encrypt and store it in password protected files. Additional protections for the encrypted data could be added (such as, limiting the number of people who had access to the files).

### Question

Which of the following statements about individually identifiable research data is correct?

### Answer

Researchers may be required to release individually identifiable information outside the research setting.

### Comment

Researchers may be required to release individually identifying information (for example, in reports about suspected child abuse or neglect). Researchers may be compelled by law to release data. Therefore, it is not always possible for researchers to ensure that identifiable data is not released outside the research setting. It is not up to the researchers to decide whether research subjects are informed about the possibility of mandated disclosures that may occur. Subjects cannot make informed decisions about participation in research without knowing about mandated disclosures relevant to the research topic. Finally, state laws where the research will take place take precedence over the researcher’s institutional policy. 
