### Question:According to the authors, there are four common abuses that historically are described as giving rise to vulnerability. Which response below contains the correct four?

### Answer: Physical control, coercion, undue influence, and neglect
- Result: Incorrect
- Correct Answer: Physical control, coercion, undue influence, and manipulation
### Comment: There are four common abuses that historically are described as giving rise to vulnerability 1) physical control, 2) coercion, 3) undue influence, and 4) manipulation. These exist along a continuum of severity with physical control being the most severe and undue influence and manipulation being the least (Nelson and Merz 2002, V69-80). The other abuses – prejudice, neglect, and disrespect – should still be avoided in research.

### Question:
A subject participates in a drug study because treatment is available at no or reduced cost, and he could not otherwise afford it. This is an example of:

### Answer: Economic vulnerability

### Comment: Economic vulnerability arises when prospective subjects are disadvantaged in the distribution of social goods and services (income, housing, or healthcare). Participation in research offers the possibility of payment or attainment of healthcare or other services that are otherwise not available, and induce persons to enroll in a research study when it might be against their better judgment and when otherwise they would not do so. These inducements to enroll threaten the voluntary nature of consent and raise the danger of exploitation.

### Question:
In considering NBAC’s analytic approach, an otherwise competent person who is acutely ill might be considered at especially high risk of harm for:

### Answer: Situational cognitive vulnerability

### Comment: Subjects who do not lack capacity, but are in situations that do not allow them to exercise their capacities effectively, may suffer situational cognitive vulnerability. This might occur when a subject is distracted or during an emergency situation, such as an acute illness or injury. Capacity-related cognitive vulnerability can occur when subjects to some extent lack capacity to make informed choices. Communicative vulnerability can occur when subjects do not lack capacity, but due to limited ability to communicate with the researchers are not able to exercise their capacities effectively. Economic vulnerability arises when prospective subjects are disadvantaged in the distribution of social goods and services (income, housing, or healthcare).

### Question:
When an IRB is reviewing a research study and they are considering if a potential subject population is vulnerable, they should consider:

### Answer: Are the research procedures greater than minimal risk of harm?
- Result: Incorrect
- Correct Answer: Is there a power differential between researchers and subjects?
### Comment: IRBs should assess if there is a power differential and if it would affect the potential subjects, making them vulnerable to coercion. According to the module authors, it is important for IRBs to ask researchers to fully describe the population to be studied and the situations in which the potential research subjects find themselves. This should answer both the question about the intrinsic factors or attributes as well as the situational forces that may give rise to different types of vulnerability. The other responses should also be considered by the IRB during their review of the research, but do not relate to identifying if the subject population is vulnerable.

### Question:
Identify the following groups that are protected in the federal regulations (45 CFR 46), specifically in Subparts B, C, and D with additional protections:

### Answer: Pregnant women, prisoners, children

### Comment: The HHS federal regulations at 45 CFR 46 includes three subparts (B, C, and D) that specifically provide additional protections to vulnerable groups. The vulnerable groups identified are:

  - Subpart B. Additional Protections for Pregnant Women, Human Fetuses and Neonates Involved in Research
  - Subpart C. Additional Protections Pertaining to Biomedical and Behavioral Research Involving Prisoners as Subjects
  - Subpart D. Additional Protections for Children Involved as Subjects in Research.
  
The regulations do not provide specific additional protections for elderly, mentally disabled, or terminally ill.
