### Question:The peer review process can create conflicts of interest because the choice of who reviews a potentially publishable project may show:

### Answer: The peer reviewer's connections to the journal may yield some concern
- Correct Answer: There may be bias by the peer reviewer as to the area of research

*Comment*: Conflicts of interest may arise in the peer review process (for example, bias causes a reviewer to respond positively to a manuscript because it involves research or methodology in which the reviewer has a personal interest).

### Question:
An example of an individual financial COI is:

### Answer: A researcher’s spouse holds equity in a publicly traded pharmaceutical company that is also the sponsor of the researcher’s study.
- Correct Answer: A researcher’s spouse holds equity in a publicly traded pharmaceutical company that is also the sponsor of the researcher’s study.

*Comment*: An individual COI may arise when an individual has a personal or financial interest, which may affect or appear to affect the design, conduct, or reporting of the research.

### Question:
A researcher calls you stating that he plans to submit a proposal to the NIH for a human subjects research study. He wants to know at what point he and his study team must submit COI disclosures to comply with the PHS regulation.

### Answer: No later than the time of proposal submission
- Correct Answer: No later than the time of proposal submission

*Comment*: The NIH is a PHS agency. Therefore, this proposed research is subject to the PHS regulation regarding objectivity in research, which requires researchers to submit COI disclosures no later than the time a proposal is submitted to a PHS funding agency.

### Question:
The FDA regulations governing disclosure of individual COIs require:

### Answer: Applicants submitting marketing applications to disclose financial COIs of researchers who conducted clinical studies
- Correct Answer: Applicants submitting marketing applications to disclose financial COIs of researchers who conducted clinical studies

*Comment*: The FDA’s regulation governing disclosure of individual COIs requires applicants submitting marketing applications for drugs, biologics, or devices to certify the absence of certain financial interests or to disclose financial interests of researchers who conducted clinical studies covered by the regulation. The regulation specifies that the FDA may refuse to file any marketing application that does not contain a disclosure of researchers’ financial interests or a certification that the applicant acted with due diligence to obtain researchers’ disclosures, but was unable to do so.

### Question:
The PHS regulations about financial conflict of interests require which party to disclose significant financial conflicts of interest?

### Answer: Researcher
- Correct Answer: Researcher

*Comment*: The PHS regulations about financial conflict of interests require the researcher to disclose significant financial conflicts of interest to the organization. The FDA’s regulation governing disclosure of individual COI requires applicants submitting marketing applications for drugs, biologics, or devices to certify the absence of certain financial interests or disclose financial interests of researchers who conducted clinical studies covered by the regulation.
