# CITI Program
## Records-Based Research
### Massachusetts Institute of Technology Affiliates - Biomedical Research Investigators

#### Quiz Results
You correctly answered 4 of 4 quiz questions. You scored 100% on the quiz.

---

### Question 1
#### In order to grant a waiver or alteration of the requirements of informed consent, an IRB must find which of the following:
- **Your Answer**: The research could not practicably be carried out without the waiver of consent.
- **Result**: Correct
- **Comment**: In order for an IRB to grant a waiver of consent, it must ensure the following federal criteria at 45 CFR 46.116 are met:
    - The research involves no more than minimal risk to the subjects;
    - The research could not practicably be carried out without the requested waiver or alteration;
    - If the research involves using identifiable private information, the research could not practicably be carried out without using such information in an identifiable format;
    - The waiver or alteration will not adversely affect the rights and welfare of the subjects; and
    - Whenever appropriate, the subjects (or legally authorized representatives) will be provided with pertinent information after participation.

---

### Question 2
#### An investigator obtains consent and HIPAA authorization from subjects to review their medical records and HIV status. His laptop is stolen. This incident constitutes:
- **Your Answer**: A breach of confidentiality
- **Result**: Correct
- **Comment**: Privacy is about people and their expectations. Privacy risk pertains primarily to the methods used to obtain information about subjects. Confidentiality pertains to the actual treatment of the personal information once it is obtained. In other words, now that the researcher has obtained private information, how will it be used, stored, and reported. Clearly, this event represents a breach of confidentiality.

---

### Question 3
#### A researcher wants to conduct a secondary analysis using a CDC database that was collected for surveillance purposes. The IRB determines that this activity does not constitute research with human subjects. Which of the following considerations was relevant to the IRB's determination?
- **Your Answer**: The researcher will not be interacting/intervening with subjects and the data has no identifiers.
- **Result**: Correct
- **Comment**: Records-based research activities may not meet the federal definition of “human subjects” research. A human subject is “a living individual about whom an investigator (whether professional or student) conducting research: (i) Obtains information or biospecimens through intervention or interaction with the individual, and uses, studies, or analyzes the information or biospecimens; or (ii) Obtains, uses, studies, analyzes, or generates identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens. (Protection of Human Subjects 2018). In this case, the investigator did not collect the data directly from the human subject and the investigator cannot readily ascertain the identity of the subject; therefore, this would not qualify as human subject research.

---

### Question 4
#### An investigator obtains consent and HIPAA authorization from subjects to review their medical records and HIV status. What are some safeguards she could use to protect subject privacy and data confidentiality?
- **Your Answer**: All of the above
- **Result**: Correct
- **Comment**: All of the listed safeguards could be employed to provide additional protections for subject privacy and data confidentiality.

---
