### Question:
According to the Belmont Report, implementing the principle of respect for persons involves:

Answer Making it clear to subjects that they may withdraw from a study.
Comment 
The principle of respect for persons requires that subjects understand that they may withdraw from a study even if they initially agreed to participate. Equitable subject selection is related to the principle of justice. There is no requirement that research subjects not be exposed to more than minimal risk, although the principle of beneficence does require that risks are minimized whenever possible. There is no regulatory requirement that subjects be compensated for research participation.

### Question:
The Belmont principle of beneficence requires that:

Answer The use of procedures that increase benefits and decrease harms whenever consistent with sound research design.
Comment 
The principle of beneficence does not require that individual subjects benefit from a research study. Many studies are designed to contribute to a field of knowledge rather than to directly benefit the participants. The principle does not require that a study make a significant contribution to generalizable knowledge, because research is, by definition, exploratory in nature. Beneficence does not require that risks to subjects be managed to no more than minimal risk, but rather that risks to subject are minimized by using procedures consistent with sound research design that do not unnecessarily expose subjects to risk.

### Question:
According to the Belmont Report, the moral requirement that there be fair selection of research subjects, expresses the principle of:

Answer Justice
Comment 
The principle of justice dictates that one group should not unfairly bear the risks of participating nor should one group unfairly benefit from the research, and that subjects may not be used simply as a population of convenience. The principle of beneficence pertains to issues regarding the acceptable relationship of risk and benefit in study design. The principle of respect for persons pertains to informed consent.
