### Question:

Hospitals routinely and systematically collect information on various services they provide. For example, they may collect data from the pharmacy to see if drugs are being dispensed accurately, or they may hand out satisfaction questionnaires to assess if patients are happy with the service being provided to them. Which of the following is the best reason to explain why these data collections may not require prior IRB approval?

Answer The hospitals are collecting these data with the intent to maintain or better their individual services and facilities programs, with no intent to share or report the results with any other entity.
Result Correct
Comment 
Quality control or quality assurance studies in which the data collected is not intended for publication or dissemination to other institutions generally do not require IRB approval. Collecting data in a coded manner is a common method used in research as well as quality control studies.

### Question:
Which of the following activities would not constitute human subjects research under the Common Rule?

Answer A study of cancer rates across various states using only public health records.
Result Correct
Comment 
A study of cancer rates using public health records would not constitute human subjects research. The use of the public health records means that there is no interaction or intervention with human subjects and the records do not contain identifiable information. Therefore, the definition of “human subject” is not met.
