### Question:
A medical researcher is comparing the results of two surgical techniques to correct a skeletal deformity. There are many obvious risks of participating in this treatment trial, and participants are carefully informed about the likelihood of infection, poor treatment outcome, further damage, etc. The research design includes a questionnaire given to patients about their quality of life before and after the surgery. Because this is just a simple paper and pencil questionnaire, it does not add any risks to the overall study design. Is this true or false?

Answer False
Comment 
Such a blanket statement requires the answer "False." Depending on the nature of the questions and the sensitivity of the information requested, very significant additional risks to privacy and confidentiality could be placed upon the study participant.

### Question:
Which of the following research scenarios would present no likelihood of harm to the participants?

Answer None of the above
Comment 
All of the scenarios present significant risk.

Answering questions about distressing experiences may upset subjects. Furthermore, because the interview is anonymous, the researcher cannot re-contact participants to offer counseling.

Study results might easily be generalized by teachers, school officials, and the general public, so as to stigmatize all children in a given ethnic group.

"A survey about sexual attitudes, beliefs and practices, mailed by an HIV/AIDS prevention study to people randomly selected from a commercial mailing list" includes several sources of potential harms, including:

- Alarm/concern about being approached for a study about an often lethal and socially stigmatizing disease.
- The possible loss of confidentiality if the questionnaires are handled inappropriately.
- That others may assume that the person receiving a mailing from an HIV/AIDS group does in fact have HIV/AIDS.

### Question:
A researcher proposes to conduct a survey about sexual attitudes, beliefs, and practices. The survey will be mailed out by an HIV/AIDS prevention group to people randomly selected from a commercial mailing list. All of the following are potential harms to participants except:

Answer That researcher might receive incomplete data from participants who do not complete the survey.
Comment 
The potential for “receiving incomplete data” based on participants not completing the survey is not considered a potential harm.

### Question:
Which of the following research scenarios would present no likelihood of harm to the participants?

Answer An interview of elementary school children about their preferred literary genres.
Comment 
With the exception of the interview of elementary school children, all of the other scenarios present risk, from minimal to greater than minimal, for the individuals participating in the research.
