### Question:
A director of a smoking cessation service at a university decided to publish a paper on whether quit rates were higher among clients who were offered as an incentive either a Moonbeams Coffee Shop’s latte coupon or a pre-paid telephone card. The director was testing a hypothesis that coffee drinkers were less likely to quit smoking than telephone users. To do this, he proposed using outcome data on smoking cessation collected by the service, which would be extracted from the university’s files and placed in a separate database with no identifying information other than sex, date of birth, zip code of Moonbeams where the coupons were used, and the telephone number of the research subject. Would this research be eligible for exemption?

Answer No. The investigator may be able to identify subjects based on telephone numbers and birth dates, so this should not be considered exempt.
Comment 
The investigator may be able to identify subjects based on telephone numbers and birth dates, so this should not be considered exempt. Records-based research may be exempt from the regulations if any of the following apply:

- The identifiable private information is publicly available (any person can obtain the data).
- The information is recorded by the researcher in such a manner that subjects cannot be identified.
- The research involves only information collection and analysis for the purposes of “health care operations” or “research” (as defined at 45 CFR 164.501), or for “public health activities and purposes” (as described at 45 CFR 164.512[b]).
- The research is conducted by a federal department or agency using government-generated or government-collected information obtained for non-research activities.
- The identifiable private information is being used for secondary research in which broad consent was obtained and documented for the identifiable private information for secondary research; a waiver of documentation of informed consent was obtained; or an IRB conducts a limited IRB review and makes the determination that the secondary research is within the scope of the broad consent and the research does not include returning individual research results to subjects (unless legally required).

### Question:
A large HMO has teamed up with several other large HMOs to study falls and footwear. The investigator proposes to review 5,000 medical records across 10 institutions of individuals injured during the last three years from a fall, so she has enough power to detect whether there is a greater number of falls among people who wear clogs. Because individuals wear so many different types of shoes, she will need to review a large number of records to find those few individuals who fit this category. From the medical records, she plans to extract the type of shoe the individuals wear. She will not re-identify the individuals and will not contact the individuals. Which of the following is likely to be the level of review determined as appropriate by the IRB?

Answer Expedited review required, as the study presents no greater than minimal risk but involves the use of medical records that contain sensitive information.
Result Incorrect
Correct Answer Exempt from the regulation, as the study presents no greater than minimal risk and does not collect identifying information.
Comment 
The proposed research is no greater than minimal risk and involves the use of information that already exists. It will be recorded from the medical records in a manner that does not allow for the identification of the subject, the investigator does not contact the subjects, and the investigator will not re-identify the subjects.

In this case, it is that the information will be recorded by the investigator in such a manner that the identity of the individuals cannot be readily ascertained. The records are not publicly available. Access of records across multiple institutions is also not germane to the determination process in this case.

### Question:
An investigator has proposed a multi-site study of PSA (Prostate Specific Antigen) test results among patients with prostate cancer. The research involves only review of medical records at institutions in several states. The investigator will not collect any identifying information on the subjects, only their PSA scores and ages (which will be collected in a range format so as to not have the person’s specific age). The investigator may correctly conclude that:

Answer IRB review, or similar process, may be required because generally investigators are not able to determine for themselves if their own research is exempt.
Comment 
While the study appears to qualify for exemption, most institutions do not allow investigators to make that determination. As a result, IRB review or a similar process is usually in place for researchers to submit proposed work for review and exempt determination.
