### Question:
A researcher is investigating the genetic biomarkers of adult subjects with autism. The research study involves a single blood draw (about one teaspoon of blood) and then genetic analysis of the specimen. How should the researcher inform prospective subjects about the potential risks of harm of this genetic research study?

Answer By carefully disclosing (without overstating) the possibilities of economic or insurance bias and of social stigma to the subject and potentially to others in the subject’s family.
Result Correct
Comment 
The best way to inform subjects about potential risks from participating in genetics research is to carefully disclose the possibilities of economic or insurance bias and of social stigma to the subject and potentially to others in the subject’s family.

### Question:
A researcher conducting a study on the incidence of mutations to the MDR-1 gene in breast cancer has preliminary evidence of a link between mutated MDR-1 and early recurrence. The researcher begins a new trial using prospectively collected tissue samples to further examine the link between the genetic abnormality and disease progression. He believes that he may want to re-contact some or all of the tissue donors (subjects) if the research indicates a positive link between MDR-1 mutation and early disease recurrence. What is the best procedure for an investigator planning to re-contact study subjects who provided tumor tissue for the study?

Answer The investigator should disclose the intention to re-contact during the consent process. That is, before acquiring and analyzing the sample for research.
Result Correct
Comment 
The investigator should disclose the intention to re-contact during the consent process. That is, before acquiring and analyzing the sample for research. Coding samples is a good idea, but, not always necessary. Contacting the patient's physician is not an appropriate approach as this could result in a breach of privacy or confidentiality.
